# Indian Name Generator

This repository contains a character-based statistical name generator that creates Indian names for both boys and girls using a dataset from Kaggle. The model predicts the next character in a name sequence using a probability distribution derived from the dataset.

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Dataset](#dataset)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Model Details](#model-details)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Credits](#credits)

## Overview
The Indian Name Generator is designed to generate culturally relevant Indian names by utilizing a statistical model based on character tokenization. It predicts the next character in a sequence to form names that are unique and culturally appropriate.

## Dataset
The dataset used for this project is sourced from Kaggle and can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/meemr5/indian-names-boys-girls). It includes a large collection of Indian names.

## Installation
To run this project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/indian-name-generator.git

2. Open the .ipynb file using Jupyter Notebook, VS code or Google Colab.
 
## Usage
To generate names using the model, open and run the provided Jupyter Notebook (name_generator.ipynb). You can adjust the parameters and settings within the notebook to customize the name generation process.

## Model Details
The model works by:

Data Preprocessing: Cleaning and preparing the dataset for training.
Training: Creating a probability distribution based on character sequences in the dataset.
Generating Names: Using the probability distribution to predict the next character in a sequence, thereby generating a new name character by character.
Performance Metrics: Calculating the average negative loss likelihood of every bigram for each name.

## Examples
Here are a few examples of names generated by the model:

 'indhan',
 'pobil',
 'randhanuprganepan',
 'arim',
 'lathuthishanizhileny',
 'amarothrshashegagigarishurapini',
 'ake',
 'na',
 'illli',
 'yara'

## Credits
This project was inspired by and developed with guidance from Andrej Karpathy's Makemore tutorial on Spelled out Introduction to Language Modeling.
